# How to Req(uirements) Projects

## Extra Package Repositories

So it turns out Gitlab, and likely Github, have the ability to create package indicies that one can draw custom python packages from. However, since this pulls from a non-standard index, there are additional hoops that need to jumped through to get this to work.

### Project-Specific Directives

A extra-index directive can either be in the requirements.txt or in the command line invoking pip. This is used to tell pip that there is an extra index to grab packages from. Note that this directive will apply to **all** listed dependencies regardless of where the directive is specified, meaning that pip will search for all of the dependencies in the extra-index-url before moving on to the index-url.

    --extra-index-url https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/761/packages/pypi/simple

Note that this tells pip that it is an **additional** index url, there is a directive to set the overall index url.

    --index-url https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/761/packages/pypi/simple
    
But you **do not** generally want to do this because it will overwrite the default index url which is the pypi repository that contains all of the normal repositories. So overriding the index url will probably break all one's other dependencies which is a pretty unfun thing to fix if one doesn't know what they are doing.

### Config Directive

*TODO*

### SSL-verification

If the extra index is using HTTPS, pip is going to throw an exception like this:

    WARNING: Retrying (Retry(total=4, connect=None, read=None, redirect=None, status=None)) after connection broken by 'SSLError(SSLCertVerificationError(1, '[SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] certificate verify failed: unable to get local issuer certificate (_ssl.c:1123)'))': /api/v4/projects/761/packages/pypi/simple/logging-talos-ext/

This exception can occur when one is trying to retrieve a package from a site that serves a certificate is not under the standard root certificate authorities. 

The easiest but most transient way to solve the issue is to disable the SSL validation which is good enough for general dev work but will likely make the devops of one's company pretty upset. The disabling can be done by setting the env variable:

    GIT_SSL_NO_VERIFY=true

One can also set the extra-index-url as a trusted host using a directive to pip which is arguably less likely to upset ops:

    --trusted-host gitlab.ktlin117.com

While one can add the certificate or it's root CA to the list of certifcates for pip to accept, the process is a bit tedious because this will require that the certificate in question be combined with the system's standard root CAs. This is due to the fact that pip's <code>--cert</code> overrides the previous directive so all the certs have to be bundled together. Good news is once that bundle of certs is built, it can be reused without having to rebuild as long at the certs are valid.
